

Stream It Or Skip It: ‘#Alive’ On Netflix, A South Korean Zombie Thriller That Leans Into the Anxieties of Isolation

Lockdown got you, well, down? Just remember that it could always be worse. Like, zombies waiting for you outside worse. That’s exactly the world one young man wakes up to in #Alive, a South Korean thriller now streaming on Netflix. In a time where many of us still can’t leave our apartments, this flick feels a little close to home. We investigate whether #Alive is a worthy addition to the zombie genre, or if you’re better off not sinking your teeth into this one.

#ALIVE: STREAM IT OR SKIP IT?
The Gist: Joon-woo is a millennial gamer who wakes up to find his entire world has changed. While he initially thinks he’s simply been left at home for a bit while his parents and sister went out, he soon realizes that they aren’t returning anytime soon. The streets below his apartment have become overrun with flesh-eating zombies, created by a mysterious, fast-spreading disease. The infected begin to bleed from their eyes and become hostile, eventually turning to cannibalism and eating any human they encounter. Joon-woo survives a near-death experience with an infected neighbor early on, and barricades himself in the apartment. He posts a photo on social media in the hopes that someone may see his SOS call and come to rescue him, but no one does. Days pass and he slowly begins to question his reality, realizing he doesn’t have nearly enough food or water to survive a lockdown with no end in sight.

Our Take: #Alive is a smart, simple zombie thriller that says more than your average brain-eater flick. Rather than getting caught up in long-winded exposition about the origination of the virus and lots of character background, it takes us right into the action, pairing us with our protagonist from the get-go. A movie has to have a lot going for it to work in a singular setting (for the most part), and #Alive does a lot with a little bit of space. Yoo Ah-in turns in a stellar performance, allowing us to sleep and wake and pass the time hand in hand with him. The lockdown certainly does elicit some pretty familiar feelings, and I’ll admit I occasionally yearned for a change of scenery – but I was never bored. The imminent sense of terror never falters, and just when you start to get too comfortable, something unexpectedly rattles you (and it never feels like a cheap jump scare).

Rather than sticking us with a group we watch get picked off one by one (whether by zombies or by each other), #Alive makes the better move. Allowing us to believe that Joon-woo is a lone survivor gives the film the opportunity to go in many directions until we finally encounter Kim Yoo-bin. Is this movie going to be the sad tale of a man wasting away in his apartment? Of plotting escape routes? Of finally succumbing to the hungry fiends outside his door? Any of these options feel possible until an unexpected friend shines a laser through his window, and her addition is a welcome one that changes the course of the film in a way that creates more levity and higher stakes. (She’s also incredibly funny and has a great deadpan).

