

Stream It Or Skip It: ‘All Of Us Are Dead’ on Netflix, Where Zombies Overrun A Korean High School

In All Of Us Are Dead (Netflix), it’s fight or flight for a group of students when their high school becomes ground zero for a zombie outbreak. The series is adapted from Now At Our School, a Korean online digital comic that ran from 2009-11, and it features at least one cast member from Netflix’s runaway hit Squid Game in Lee Yoo-mi (Player #240), who is one of the set-upon students here. 

ALL OF US ARE DEAD: STREAM IT OR SKIP IT?
Opening Shot: In a swirling long take, we see two male students taunting and bullying a third boy as two more students look on. Pushes become shoves and kicks to the chest, and the violence escalates until the victim is thrown from the roof on which all of this is occurring. He crashes to the alley three stories below.

The Gist: Right before he flew off that roof, bullied student Jin-su seemed to fight back against his tormentors with a mixture of rabid determination and bone-snapping urgency, and when we meet him again in the emergency room, it’s clear that bullies and bruises are the least of this kid’s problems. He’s got zombie fever, and his father Lee Byung-chan (Kim Byung-chul) knows it. Lee attempts to beat his son to death with a Bible, and soon returns to Hyosan High School, where he’s the science teacher. For the moment, all is calm at Hyosan, where students Cheong-san (Yoon Chan-young), On-jo (Park Ji-hoo), and Su-Hyeok (Park Solomon) are attempting to navigate a love triangle: Cheon-san pines for On-jo, but he’s stuck in the friend zone, while On-jo is crushing on Su-Hyeok, who seems to have eyes for someone else. Class bully Yoon Gwi-nam (Yoo In-soo), meanwhile, pesters the shy and the weak.

Mr. Lee is hiding more than his outcast, zombie-sick son. A hamster in his lab is infected, too, and bites a mean girl named Hyeon-ju. Lee restrains her in his office and injects her with benzodiazepine. “It’s slowing down the infection,” he tells a video log, “but only by a few hours at most.” Whatever the motives of Hyosan’s most deranged science teacher, his attempts to study the zombie virus quickly spin wildly out of control, and it’s bedlam as the bitten transform into bloodthirsty undead freaks.

Who will survive the onslaught? In the first episode of All Of Us Are Dead, none of the students we’ve met are immediately among the bitten. But the zombies on this show move fast, have strength, and have already been shown to be pretty resilient. (Remember the kid who survived being thrown from a roof?) Cheong-san and On-jo better stick together, watch their backs, and maybe make a beeline for the high school archery range.

