

Always and Forever

To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before, an unfailingly sweet update on a John Hughes movie about a Korean-American high school girl whose old love letters are accidentally delivered, was arguably the most successful of Netflix’s 2018 romcom revival (which included less effective but still popular films such as Set It Up, Someone Great, Always Be My Maybe and The Kissing Booth). The film launched homegrown stars in Lana Condor and Noah Centineo, whose irresistible chemistry made it a beguiling streamer’s loop; it’s one of the few films I rewatched immediately, then rewatched again, then popped in and out of my favorite scenes for weeks.

Happily ever afters do not resolve when there’s so much money and attention at stake, and the saga of Lara Jean Song Covey (Condor) and Peter Kavinsky (Centineo) continues in two sequels filmed back-to-back, both based on the YA hits by Jenny Han (who adapted the screenplay with Katie Lovejoy). The first, To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before: PS I Still Love You, premiered almost exactly a year ago. The second, Always and Forever, originally slated for late last year, arrives on 12 February. There’s been some, um, developments in between those premiere dates, which will either heighten your escapist craving or distract from the film’s fantasized timeline (it’s set in spring 2021, yet there’s no masks in sight).

But where the second movie faltered by setting up a too-hastily sketched, unconvincing love triangle, Always and Forever corrects course by re-centering the series’ initial hook: the palpable spark between overthinking Lara Jean and ever-charming Peter, who still looks at Lara Jean like … if you’ve seen the first, you know. It’s an enjoyable if sometimes overwrought return to form, as its central pair are buffeted by a sanitized though still thorny college admissions process.

Always and Forever, directed by Michael Fimognari (who also helmed PS I Still Love You; the first film was directed by Susan Johnson), picks up weeks after the second movie left off: Lara Jean and Peter are back together and inseparable, FaceTiming I love yous from Portland and the Coveys’ spring break in Seoul. (Lara Jean’s Korean heritage – unfortunately, groundbreaking in 2018 – is once again treated sensitively here, an important aspect of her life but not the only one). Lara Jean, ever the fantasist, has a life plan, played out in succinct daydream: get into Stanford with Peter, get married to Peter, have a baby and a house with Peter, write a bestselling book with Peter.