The Kissing Booth

The To All The Boys I've Loved Before franchise is often deemed to be so much better than The Kissing Booth movies — why? In 2018, Netflix launched two separate rom-com film series. Both are based on young adult books that run as a trilogy, stacking them against each other was inevitable. Now that The Kissing Booth 3 is out, it's easier to compare them, and easily see why the To All The Boys I've Loved Before movies reign supreme.

Focusing on Lara Jean Covey (Lana Condor) and the love letters she wrote for her crushes which were sent out without her consent, the original To All The Boys I've Loved Before film followed her fake relationship with Peter Kavinsky (Noah Centineo). The sequel, To All The Boys: P.S. I Still Love You saw the arrival of John Ambrose (Jordan Fisher), while the final movie, To All The Boys: Always and Forever tackled the pressure of Lara Jean and Peter going to college. Meanwhile, The Kissing Booth introduced best friends, Elle Evans (Joey King) and Lee Flynn (Joel Courtney); their dynamic gets complicated when his older brother, Noah Flynn (Jacob Elordi) started dating her. The Kissing Booth 2 saw Elle and Noah navigate their long-distance set-up, and The Kissing Booth 3 forced all three of them to grow up on their own.

While the trilogies have very different premises, they share a lot of storytelling themes, particularly in terms of coming-of-age and rom-com tropes. No wonder they're often matched up against each other. With both film series finished, it's clear that the To All The Boys franchise is more well-received. While its first movie is still largely considered the best, the sequels hold up pretty well compared to The Kissing Booth which got significantly worse over time. One of the main advantages of the To All The Boys series from its competitor is its characters. Despite Lara Jean and Peter making some catastrophic mistakes along the way, both of them are genuinely good and well-rounded people. They learn from their errors which makes them more relatable and easier to root for. Meanwhile, The Kissing Booth cast of characters barely had any personal growth. The Kissing Booth 3 feels like a redundancy because almost every single issue they tackled was a variation of their previous issues in The Kissing Booth 2. The six-year time jump at the end was meant to show Elle, Noah, and Lee all grown up, but it felt rushed and unearned because the film didn't show the part where they actually mature.